Make access token mandatory for continuation API calls. (#129)
ietf-wg-gnap/gnap-core-protocol: draft-ietf-gnap-core-protocol.md

            handle and calling the URI.

access_token (object)
: REQUIRED. A unique access token for continuing the request, in the format specified
            in {{response-token-single}}. This access token MUST be bound to the
            RC's key used in the request and MUST NOT be a bearer token. As a consequence,
            the `key` field of this access token is always the boolean value `true`.
            This access token MUST NOT be usable at resources outside of the AS.

>             The RC MUST present the access  token in all requests to the continuation URI as 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The RC MUST present the access token in all requests to the continuation URI as 
```

Author: Good catch, thanks!

the [original grant request](#request). 

To enable this ongoing negotiation, the AS provides a continuation API to the RC.
The AS returns a `continue` field 
[in the response](#response-continue) that contains information the RC needs to
access this API, including a URI to access
as well as an access token to use during the continued requests. 

The access token is initially bound to the same key and method the RC used to make 
the initial request. As a consequence,
when the RC makes any calls to the continuation URL, the RC MUST present
the access token as described in {{use-access-token}} and present
proof of the RC's key (or its most recent rotation)
by signing the request as described in {{binding-keys}}.

\[\[ [See issue #85](https://github.com/ietf-wg-gnap/gnap-core-protocol/issues/85) \]\]

For example, here the RC makes a POST request to a unique URI and signs 
the request with detached JWS:

~~~
POST /continue/KSKUOMUKM HTTP/1.1
Authorization: GNAP 80UPRY5NM33OMUKMKSKU
Host: server.example.com
Detached-JWS: ejy0...
~~~

The AS MUST be able to tell from the RC's request which specific ongoing request

> is being accessed. Common methods for facilitating this include using a unique, unguessable URL

Reviewer 2: This is security critical (hence a MUST on the first line of the paragraph) and yet we are leaving this decision to the implementer. Why not pick one of these "common methods" and mandate it? Reducing the optionality is a **good thing** when it makes for more secure implementations.

Author: This is a question of API design and deployment. There is no optionality in the protocol here: it always includes a URL and an access token. We're allowing the AS to decide if it uses the access token alone, the URL, or a combination of the two in order to identify the ongoing request that the continuation request represents. If we do mandate something be the deciding factor, it should be the access token, but I'm not convinced that's really our business to say.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, this is optionality at the implementation level, not the protocol. My push is to reduce the number of decisions implementers have to make, each of which could easily become a security issue.

Reviewer 3: Agreed. We might include a note for implementers if we think some guidance would help (just providing examples of deployment and their impact to make it concrete).

Reviewer 4: > This is security critical (hence a MUST on the first line of the paragraph) and yet we are leaving this decision to the implementer. Why not pick one of these "common methods" and mandate it? Reducing the optionality is a **good thing** when it makes for more secure implementations.

I agree with @yaronf's comments here on the optionality in implementation. This is NOT an access token in how it is usually used -- it is managing state for the AS to determine the request. A unique URL is the common mechanism. I also don't think the URL needs to be unique for each "continuation" -- it only needs to be unique for that grant request.

> The AS MUST be able to tell from the RC's request which specific ongoing request
> is being accessed. Common methods for facilitating this include using a unique, unguessable URL
> for each continuation response, associating the request with the provided access
> token, or allowing only a single ongoing grant request for a given RC instance
> at a time. If the AS cannot determine a single active grant request to map the
> continuation request to, the AS MUST return an error.

Author: Proposed alternative text to make this MUST and its guidance more actionable:

```suggestion
The AS MUST be able to tell from the RC's request which specific ongoing request
is being accessed, using a combination of the continuation URL,
the provided access token, and the RC instance identified by the key signature.
If the AS cannot determine a single active grant request to map the
continuation request to, the AS MUST return an error.
```

Reviewer 2: WFM.

Author: OK, incorporated.

If the AS determines that the RC can 
make a further continuation request, the AS MUST include a new 
["continue" response](#response-continue). 
The new `continue` response MUST include a bound access token as well, and

> this token SHOULD be a new access token, invalidating the previous access token.

Reviewer 2: Why SHOULD? Are there cases where there's a good reason to retain an old one? I am sure this detail is critical for any formal security proof.

Reviewer 3: I fully agree this is a MUST. Dick had another view however.

Reviewer 2: If we need to call WG consensus on this, fine. We cannot have SHOULDs just because we are unable to reach agreement. Quoting RFC 2119, "This word, or the adjective "RECOMMENDED", mean that there may exist valid reasons in particular circumstances to ignore a particular item, but the full implications must be understood and carefully weighed before choosing a different course." Which implies that *we* need to say when it may be appropriate to keep the old one.

Reviewer 3: The best would be for Dick to reexplain his use case (and other people as well if it makes sense) and then we can decide as a group.

Reviewer 5: This PR doesn't change the behavior here, so we'll track whether this should be a SHOULD/MUST in a separate issue: #147
